In this step, let's add a delete mapping to our resource. If you look at it,
our service right now, there is no delete method right now. So I'll create a delete method.
Let's copy the find method.
It should be easy quick, right? So delete by Id and I would want to actually pass in the Id.
So one of the important things is I cannot use the for loop thing because I cannot delete a user in between
a request.
One of the option is to create a temporary list and add to it.
But rather than that I would use an iterator.
So what I'll do is I’ll get the users dot iterator. Use the iterator.
So I'll say while iterator dot has next, while iterator dot has next.
I’ll say user, user
is equal to iterator dot next.
And if the Id matches then what we would want to do is we would want to return.
We would want to remove it out.
So iterator dot remove. So I would want to remove that object out if it matches.
I am basically deleting it from the static array list. That’s basically what we are doing.
And once it is removed, I’d return the deleted resource back.
Otherwise I would return null. That’s cool!
So what we are doing is we are deleting the resource and returning the resource back.
So if they want the Id of the delete resource then we can actually provide it.
We created a simple method in the service to delete by id and now let's create a resource for that.
So I would copy this one because I would want to create delete method.
So now I would say at delete mapping imported it in.
So this would be no longer a delete user. One of the important things with delete user it’s sufficient
if I just return a 200 status back. Success status back. So if everything went through fine and I return
nothing back then it's a 200 status.
The other thing that we can also do is we can also create the response entity and return a status of no content.
So if you look at the response entity thing there are other methods which are present. So response entity
there are no content.
So you can either return a no content back or I can return an empty thing.
So I just put a void and if I nothing is returned it means it’s a success. So let's do the void route this
time.
So what we would want to do is delete user instead of find one.
What I want to do is delete by Id.
So that’s cool!
So if the delete went through fine I would get back the user. User user
is equal to service delete by id.
So if user is null then I would want to again throw the same exception.
User not found for that specific thing. And I don't really need to worry about it right now. What the delete user
does is if the user is deleted successfully it would be return a status of 200.
Otherwise it would return a status of resource not found.
Again,
think about it when I'm trying to delete a specific resource, I would want to find out whether it's successful
or not and that’s…if it's successful I would return a status of 200 back if it's not successful.
What we are doing is we are saying, your users is not found. The resource you wanted to delete was not really
found.
And if any other exception happens in delete by Id also because we have defined the appropriate exception
handlers it would get a proper response back, saying something wrong going back on.
So let's go ahead and execute a delete request.
So I'm going to say delete one and send it.
Status is success.
So let's go to users.
And …Oops..I would want to get request from the users. Ok get users.
There you go.
So the one was deleted.
So, I only have two users left out.
And let's try and delete a nonexisting user.  Thousand.
Ok, it’s saying resource not found and this is the request details that are being shared.
So that's pretty cool.
So you're saying I'm getting a delete request on a non-existing user.
And we're saying I don't know who you are and how can I delete you. A successful delete request,
we are returning 200 back. Delete on a non-existing resources, we’re returning a 404 back. That’s perfect
and we're adhering to most of the conventions of HTTP. That’s cool. Until the next step, bye-bye.